Problem_connecting rk to NIL.md, before:

After some trial and error I found that with the function `rotateDoubleLeftD` I was missing a logical connection between the rank of a tree and whether it is Nil or not. 

First, I was confused by that, because previously this asssumption held for me, or so I thought. 

What was actually true was the implication: an empty Tree (Nil) implied a rank of `-1` and a non-empty Tree a rank greater than that but the same implication was not proven for the other direction. 

So, when I tried to establish relation between Trees in a refinement using ranks the pattern matching of LH said I was missing something. 

Only when I used an implication of the NIL state LH said it was "safe". 

The concrete function I tried to refine:

```haskell
{-@ rotateDoubleLeftD :: {s:Node3_1 | notEmptyTree (right s) && notEmptyTree (left (right s)) && IsNode1_2 (right s) 
                        && (not (notEmptyTree (right s) || (notEmptyTree (right (right s)) ))) } -- <-- this was the accepted term
-> {t:Wavl | EqRk s t && notEmptyTree t} @-}
rotateDoubleLeftD :: Tree a -> Tree a
-- rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z 2 Nil (Tree y m (Tree v o _ _) _)) = Tree v 2 (singleton z) (singleton y)
rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z n x (Tree y m (Tree v o vl vr) yr)) = Tree v n (Tree z (n-2) x vl) (Tree y (n-2) vr yr)
```

and the not eaccepted term: 

```haskell
{-@ rotateDoubleLeftD :: {s:Node3_1 | notEmptyTree (right s) && notEmptyTree (left (right s)) && IsNode1_2 (right s) 
                        && rk (right s) == rk (right (right s)) } -- <-- unsafe term
-> {t:Wavl | EqRk s t && notEmptyTree t} @-}
rotateDoubleLeftD :: Tree a -> Tree a
-- rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z 2 Nil (Tree y m (Tree v o _ _) _)) = Tree v 2 (singleton z) (singleton y)
rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z n x (Tree y m (Tree v o vl vr) yr)) = Tree v n (Tree z (n-2) x vl) (Tree y (n-2) vr yr)
```

While the first is not straight forward, it is actually the implication if x is not Nil so must be yr. Actually, this is an equivalence but LH accepted it with only the one direction. 

My realization from that: 

what I thought already to be explicit and "connected" through logic wasn't.

Commit message:

updated: Problem desc. of connecting rk to NIL
did some small refinement cleanup

Problem_connecting rk to NIL.md, after:

After some trial and error I found that with the function `rotateDoubleLeftD` I was missing a logical connection between the rank of a tree and whether it is Nil or not. 

First, I was confused by that, because previously this asssumption held for me, or so I thought. 

What was actually true was the implication: an empty Tree (Nil) implied a rank of `-1` and a non-empty Tree a rank greater than that but the same implication was not proven for the other direction. 

So, when I tried to establish relation between Trees in a refinement using ranks the pattern matching of LH said I was missing something. 

Only when I used an implication of the NIL state LH said it was "safe". 

The concrete function I tried to refine:

```haskell
{-@ rotateDoubleLeftD :: {s:Node3_1 | notEmptyTree (right s) && notEmptyTree (left (right s)) && IsNode1_2 (right s) 
                        && (not (notEmptyTree (right s) || (notEmptyTree (right (right s)) ))) } -- <-- this was the accepted term
-> {t:Wavl | EqRk s t && notEmptyTree t} @-}
rotateDoubleLeftD :: Tree a -> Tree a
-- rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z 2 Nil (Tree y m (Tree v o _ _) _)) = Tree v 2 (singleton z) (singleton y)
rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z n x (Tree y m (Tree v o vl vr) yr)) = Tree v n (Tree z (n-2) x vl) (Tree y (n-2) vr yr)
```

and the not accepted term: 

```haskell
{-@ rotateDoubleLeftD :: {s:Node3_1 | notEmptyTree (right s) && notEmptyTree (left (right s)) && IsNode1_2 (right s) 
                        && rk (right s) == rk (right (right s)) } -- <-- unsafe term
-> {t:Wavl | EqRk s t && notEmptyTree t} @-}
rotateDoubleLeftD :: Tree a -> Tree a
-- rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z 2 Nil (Tree y m (Tree v o _ _) _)) = Tree v 2 (singleton z) (singleton y)
rotateDoubleLeftD (Tree z n x (Tree y m (Tree v o vl vr) yr)) = Tree v n (Tree z (n-2) x vl) (Tree y (n-2) vr yr)
```

While the first is not straight forward, it is actually the implication if x is not Nil so must be yr. Actually, this is an equivalence but LH accepted it with only the one direction. 

My realization from that: 

what I thought already to be explicit and "connected" through logic wasn't.


# Update: found nicer solution

Similar to the notEmptyTree problem, After adding the updated (case splitting) refinement on rk, i found that I don't need to reason anymore about the notEmptyTree equality of some tree nodes.

```haskell
{-@ measure rk @-}
{-@ rk :: t:Tree a -> {v:Rank | (not (notEmptyTree t) || v >= 0) && (notEmptyTree t || v== (-1))} @-}
rk :: Tree a -> Int
rk Nil =  -1
rk t@(Tree _ n _ _) = n
```

So the latest refinement could be done like this, leaving out the equality part: 
```haskell
{-@ rotateDoubleLeftD :: {s:Node3_1 | notEmptyTree (left (right s)) && IsNode1_2 (right s) } -> {t:NEWavl | EqRk s t} @-}
```

The NEWavl type is just Wavl tree, where i check for notEmptyness of the node itself: `type NEWavl = {v:Wavl | notEmptyTree v && rk v >= 0 }`
